---
title:  "Nursery cryme"
subtitle: "Genesis"
author: "Wferr"
avatar: "img/authors/wferr.png"
image: "img/post3.jpg"
date:   2015-04-22 12:12:12
---

The follow up to Genesis first real album "Trespass", "Nursery Cryme" represents a giant leap forward. Phil Collins and Steve Hackett were now on board completing the classic line up.

The opening "Musical Box" is a wonderful mini rock opera, with nursery rhyme influences mixing with bombastic keyboards and drums. It really is a true prog classic, and essential for anyone new to the genre wishing to find the essence of early 1970's prog

The gentle Phil Collins led song "For absent friends" provides a brief breathing space before the wonderfully heavy and menacing keyboard introduction to "The return of the giant hogweed". Genesis collective imagination runs riot on these showpiece tracks, creating sounds and structures which at the time of this album's release were unique.

On side 2 of the LP, "Seven Stones" and "The fountain of Salmacis" both have strong Mellotron played by Tony Banks. "Seven stones" has one of the purest mellotron solos you're likely to hear, while "Fountain.." has an almost symphonic sound complementing a mythical story.

"Harold the barrel" is a brief but amusing interlude about a "Well know Bognor restaurant owner", who threatens to jump from a tall building. "Harlequin" is really the only superfluous track on the album, quaint but disposable.

In all, one of the major albums in prog history, full of enterprise, imagination, and great music.